PHYLUM PORIFERA (Sponges)
Sponges are simple sedentary animals without a mouth or any organs and consist of a colony of cells loosely held together in a fibrous or glassy skeleton.

PHYLUM CTENOPHORA (Comb jellies)



PHYLUM CNIDARIA
Cnidarians are simple, radially symmetrical, sac-like animals with only two cell layers, that possess 
specialised cells with coiled stings (nematocysts). The mouth is the only opening to 
the central cavity, which serves as the gut.

PHYLUM PLATYHELMINTHES (Flat worms and parasitic tape worms and flukes)
These are fllat unsegmented worms. Free living flatworms capture food using a proboscis and the gut is
a blind branching tube without an anus.

PHYLUM NEMERTEA (Ribbon worms)
These worms are long, thin, ribbon-like creatures that extend a proboscis to collect food. The gut is an
open tube ending in an anus.

PHYLUM NEMATODA (Round worms)
Peanut worms are tough unsegmented worms with a short bulbous body and an elongate front end, 
the introvert, which can be forced out by muscular contraction or rolled back into the body.
Tentacles surround the mouth at the tip of the introvert.

PHYLUM ANNELIDA (Segmented worms)
Segmented worms include earthworms and leeches but the most numerous marine worms are bristle worms, in which each segment has lateral protuberances bearing tufts of bristles.

PHYLUM ARTHROPODA (Insects, spiders, crabs)
Arthropods are animals with jointed limbs and a segmented body that is covered by a hard, jointed, external skeleton. 
There are few marine insects and spiders. Crustaceans are by far the most numerous and diverse arthropod group in the sea.

PHYLUM BRYOZOA (Moss or lace animals)
Bryozoans are colonies of numerous, tiny individuals, each encased in a box-like skeleton. The colonies take on many different forms including flat crusts, upright bushes and lacy corals. These animals are very common but often confused with other plants and animals.

PHYLUM BRACHIOPODA (Lamp shells)
Lamp shells outwardly resemble clams but are totally different inside. They have two calcium carbonate plates 
(valves) to their shells, one ventral below the body and the other dorsally above it. Most are attached by a short stalk. Brachiopods dominated ancient seas but only a few species remain today.

PHYLUM MOLLUSCA (Snails, clams, squid and their kin)
All molluscs have an unsegmented body divided into a head, a foot and a lump of body 
organs (the visceral mass). Most have a ribbon-like rasping tongue (a radula). 
Nearly all secrete a calcium carbonate shell that covers the body.

PHYLUM ECHINODERMATA (Starfish and sea urchins)
These are animals with five-rayed symmetry, often star- or ball-shaped. All have spines or spicules in their skin.

PHYLUM CHORDATA (Rod-backed animals including vertebrates)
Chordates are advanced animals with a dorsal backbone and a nerve cord. The seasquirts are included with the 
vertebrates because their tadpole larvae have a primitive back rod although it is lost in the adults


